# ReqIF Cleanup and Validation Utility
## Basic Usage
1. Extract binary found in https://github.com/intland/reqif-cleanup/releases
1. Put ReqIF files to be processed into input folder.

## Validating ReqIF Files
Running `validate.bat` will validate the file against the ReqIF XML schema. If not error is reported the files are valid.

## Cleaning up ReqIF Files
codebeamer 20.11 and older did under some cicumstances add additional unwanted attribute definition to the ReqIF export.
Those attrribute __definitions__  can be dropped by running `cleanup.bat`.
See also https://codebeamer.com/cb/wiki/13384633

## Automatic Generation of a Repository ID
With older codebeamer releases (9.5 and older) importing REqIF exports with missing repository identifier can be problematic.
Run `identifier.bat` to generate a repositoty identifier based on the GUIDs of the specifications in the ReqIF.
 
 ## Fixing Identifiers in ReqIF Exports
Identifiers codebeamer generates for ReqIF Exports are based on the host ID of the codebeamer server. Changes of the MAC address (can be compensated, please contact support) or the platfrom will result in a changed host ID which will lead to generation of different IDs in the ReqIF. This ID change will cause problems with ReqIF exchanges that were started before changing the host ID.


To use this functionallity the old an new host IDs with all `:`replaced with `-` need to be configured in `settings.bat`.

After doing so `fixIDsAfterExport.bat`can be used to re-insert the old IDs into a ReqIF exported from codebeamer before providing it to a 3rd party.

`fixIDsBeforeImport.bat` can be used to replace the old IDs you will find in exports generated by a 3rd party with the new IDs codebeamer is using internally.
Principally codebeamer should be able to deal with the old IDs transparently, but there have been reports that this not always works, therefore pre-processing the file before import is advisable.

A solution that will not require pre- or post-processing the files is planned for Felicity and might be porovided in a service pack.
